---
label: I18n
icon: globe
order: 70
---

#

## :icon-globe-24:&nbsp;&nbsp;Internationalization

---

Pagy handles string translation and pluralization using its own efficient i18n implementation.

!!!warning 

Apps using **only English language**, don't need any I18n Setup!

!!!

<br>

### Locales

All Pagy strings are stored in **dictionary files** within its [locales](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/gem/locales). These files adopt the same structure as the standard locale files for the `i18n` gem, allowing you to use them seamlessly with both systems.

### Setup

+++ Pagy::I18n

!!!success Recommended: ~18x faster and ~10x lighter

It works seamlessly even if the rest of your app works with the `i18n` gem.

!!!

Set the `Pagy::I18n.locale` for each request. For example:

```rb Controller
before_action { Pagy::I18n.locale = params[:locale] }
```

**Notice**: The default `Pagy::I18n.locale` is `'en'`.

+++ I18n gem

!!!warning Slower
!!!

Switch the translation to the `i18n` gem. Pagy will provide only its dictionaries...

```rb [pagy.rb initializer](../toolbox/configuration/initializer)
Pagy.translate_with_the_slower_i18n_gem!
```
+++

==- Dictionary file example

:::code source="../gem/locales/en.yml" title="en.yml":::

==- Customizing dictionaries

!!!warning IMPORTANT

If you use `Pagy::I18n`, name your custom dictionary as `<locale>.yml`.

!!!

Place your custom dictionaries in a directory and add its path to the I18n pathnames.

```rb [pagy.rb initializer](../toolbox/configuration/initializer)
# Example for Rails:
Pagy::I18n.pathnames << Rails.root.join('config/locales/pagy')
```

==- Localization

Localization is needed **only** by the calendar with non `en` locales [localization](https://ddnexus.github.io/pagy/toolbox/paginators/calendar/#localization).

==- Contributing a language

>>> Find the pluralization rules for your language

- Locate the locale file you need in the [list of pluralizations](https://github.com/svenfuchs/rails-i18n/tree/master/rails/pluralization)

- Check the pluralization rules required in it. For example, the name of the file required is `one_other` for [`en.rb`](https://github.com/svenfuchs/rails-i18n/blob/master/rails/pluralization/en.rb). In Pagy, that translates to `'OneOther'`.

  - If you cannot find the pluralization in the link above, check the [Unicode pluralization rules](https://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/45/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html).

  - Confirm that pagy already defines the pluralization rules of your dictionary file by checking the file in the [P18n directory](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/gem/lib/pagy/modules/i18n/p18n).

    - If the rules are not defined, you can either:

      - Add a new module for the pluralization (by adapting the same pluralization from the corresponding rails-i18n file) and include tests for it;

      - Or, create an issue requesting the addition of the pluralization entry and its tests.

>>> Duplicate an existing Pagy locale dictionary file and translate it into your language.

- See the [lib/locales](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/tree/master/gem/locales) for existing dictionaries.

- Check that the `p11n` entry points to a module in the [P18n directory](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/gem/lib/pagy/modules/i18n/p18n).

- The mandatory pluralized entries in the dictionary file are `aria_label.nav` and `item_name`. Please provide all the necessary plurals for your language. For example, if your language uses the `EastSlavic` rule, you should provide the plurals for `one`, `few`, `many`, and `other`. If it uses `Other`, you should only provide a single value. Check other dictionary files for examples, and ask if you have any doubts.

Feel free to ask for help in your Pull Request.
>>>

===
